Grace Wins [ draft A | 1/30/21 ]

I have spent my entire life surrounded by various forms of religion, mostly
from a Christian point of view.  A little background related to that.  I grew
up in a south Louisiana Cajun family, both sides coming as part of the Acadian
Dispersion from eastern Canada, which also meant growing up deeply rooted in
Catholicism.

I went through all of the hoops early on and after my parents were divorced in
the late 70’s we became pretty nominal, but those roots ran deep.

Between the ages of 12 and 18 I was in an out of a couple of Baptist churches,
one Independent Fundamentalist, the other Southern Baptist.  My best friend
from high school got me going to church with him for a while at his Southern
Baptist church and that was probably ages 15-18, and that was the most
consistency for me.

At the age of 18 I found my way into south Mississippi and in another Southern
Baptist church where I made what is considered my own “personal profession of
faith.”  In other words, I claimed my on faith in what I believed to be true
about Jesus; his death and his resurrection.  About a year later I found myself
considering ministry work.  As a result I started serious training for this
after graduating from college and entering the most conservative of Southern
Baptist seminaries before beginning my own full time ministry in 2004 as a
pastor.

I say all of this because the one thing that has been a constant in all of this
has been guilt and shame.  I used to joke with my own children how I could
“throw guilt like a shoe” because I had experienced so much of it growing up,
preached so much of it as adult, and continued to carry that baggage well into
my 40’s.

My guilt was because my heart, mind and soul didn’t match up with my body.
I was assigned male at birth but I knew that wasn’t right.  It wasn’t until I
started seminary in 1995 that I learned the word for it: transgender.  I am a
transgender woman.  And the weight of guilt and shame that I carried until just
a few years ago is what kept me locked away thinking I was broken and in need
of being fixed.

Yes I would experiment here and there.  Wearing the undergarments under my
clothes.  Buying clearance shoes as if I was shopping for my wife.  Shaving my
legs from time to time.  But all of that was short lived.  I would soon find
myself purging it all out of guilt and shame.  And then the religion would kick
in and I was asking God to forgive me of something I was too ashamed to even
admit to him and praying to be “fixed.”

Guilt and shame are powerful tools.  They can break hearts and steal lives.

Their weight is immeasurable, yet crushing to those who are victims.  For over
40 years I let guilt and shame control my life.  For over 40 years the thumb of
those 2 sons of a bitches controlled so much of my life!

That was until grace became real to me.  Grace in theological circles is defined
as “unmerited favor.”  In other words, you are getting what you never deserved.

A broader definition from Merriam-Webster is simply “approval, favor.”  Grace
wasn’t something I needed to seek out from God, it was something I already had
since They created me.  Psalm 139:13-14 reads in the NLT, “You made all the
delicate, inner parts of my body and knit me together in my mother’s womb.
Thank you for making me so wonderfully complex!  Your workmanship is
marvelous—how well I know it.”

In other words it took me over 40 years to realize I wasn’t broken, I wasn’t
messed up, and I wasn’t a mistake!  Those things that guilt and shame said I
should feel sorry for and “repent of” from years of religious teachings were not
so.  Grace said I am accepted.  Grace said God knows me inside and out!  Grace
said I am free to live for the first time in my life!

When I finally gave guilt and shame the finger and told them to F off my life
changed.  I found me.  I found Danielle Grace in there.  She has been there all
along, but I wasn’t sure how to let her be true to herself.  Grace won in a way
I never imagined it happening.

And in grace I can agree with the Apostle Paul in Romans 8:1 (NLT), “So now
there is no condemnation for those who belong to Christ Jesus.”  There is no
condemnation for me, and there is no condemnation for you.  Accept who you are
because God already accepts you, and be free to let grace reign as you become
who you were created to be!
